# IncidenceAlgebraHH
Code to calculate the Hochschild cohomology groups of a finite dimensional incidence algebra.

    
The file hoch_cohom_inc_algs.sage is code for the function HH(P,c), which runs in Sage, using 
     functions called from gap, and which can be copy and pasted into a Sage command line.  The input P is a Sage poset object and the input c is 
     either a prime number or 0, specifying the characteristic of the field.  The function returns the dimensions of the Hochschild cohomology groups of 
     the incidence algebra of P over a field of characteristic c.  For test purposes, a random poset P with n points can be generated by the command 
     P = posets.RandomPoset(n,a), where a is a value between 0 and 1 that determines the height/width ratio of the poset.  One may use the command 
     uniform(0,1) in place of a to generate a uniformly random value.  Alternatively, the Sage documentation, which can be found here:
     https://doc.sagemath.org/html/en/reference/combinat/sage/combinat/posets/poset_examples.html#sage.combinat.posets.poset_examples.Posets.RandomPoset 
     suggests informally that a = 1/n tends to generate "interesting posets".
     

The file hoch_cohom_inc_algs_pseudocode.md contains pseudocode for the algorithm HH(P,c) above.


The file compare_algorithms.sage contains code to verify the run-time comparison claims made in Remark 5 of the article "Projective resolutions of simple modules and Hochschild cohomology for 
incidence algebras", where the above algorithm is introduced.  It is Sage code, calling functions both from gap and from Magma (because the algorithm "CompactProjectiveResolution" 
being compared with the iCycles algorithm is, to our knowledge, only available in Magma).  The code can be copy and pasted into a Sage command line.  The recorded time for 
CompactProjectiveResolution includes the time necessary to transfer the necessary data to Magma and retrieve the output, but this is negligible (less than 10 milliseconds) compared 
to the total runtime (on the order of 400 seconds for the posets considered in the article). 
